Welcome to part two.
Now we're going to implement form submission.
So the first task tells us to create a Jojo item class.
So we'll create a new file called Item Java.
And inside the item class, we will add the following fields.
And now?
Well, first we have to import the data class.
And by the way, when you're coding, please make sure to import the correct class.
So we're going to import the data class from java util, not from Java.
SQL.
It's really important that you're careful what you import.
And now I will generate the getters and setters for each field.
If you're using analogy, I already showed you how to do that in the lesson titled Path be the model.
In any case, generate a full constructor.
As well as an empty constructor.
OC.
Sweet.
Everything looks good.
Okay.
Going back, we have to create an item object and bind it to the form.
So let's do just that inside of.
Well, let me just remove all of these breakpoints.
Inside of get form.
I'm going to add a new model attribute model dot add attribute.
It's going to be a key called item that maps to a new item object.
And this item object that we're passing into our model.
We're going to bind it to our form using the leaf attribute object.
And here we can use a variable expression to retrieve our item object.
I believe it's called.
Yeah.
So this retrieves the item object that we're passing in and it binds it to our form.
Task number three is to bind each form element to a field in the object, and it's telling us to pay
attention to the fact that the dropdown list is also a form element.
That makes sense because when we submit this form, all of the values are going to come from the following
elements.
This will give us the category that the user chose.
This will give us the name they inputted, the price discount, etc. And once the user presses submit,
all of that data will be sent as part of a post request.
So we're going to bind this element to the category field of our item object.
So we'll say finally, field is equal to and this time we can use a selection expression to select a
field from the previously bound object.
And that field, I believe, is called category.
So for the sake of example, let's just say there was a let's just say there was an Apple option with
a value of apple.
If the user selects this option, then the value that will be used to update our category field will
be Apple.
But obviously they're going to choose either office supplies, furniture or a table.
And we're going to bind this input to the name field.
You may just copy and paste it.
Will bind this input to the price field.
We will bind this one to the discount field.
Then we will bind this one to the date field.
So as soon as the user submits the form, the category that they selected the name, they inputted the
price discount, the date.
All of that data will be sent as part of a post request.
Now upon form submission, we need to actually make that post request and we can do that with the leaf
attribute action.
And where does it say to make a post request to on submit item?
So once again we can use a link expression to specify a URL.
The URL is context relative, so we don't need to define the host and port.
We can just say slash submit item.
Okay.
And now it's telling us to create a handler method that intercepts the post request as well as an array
list that can store item objects.
Then we need to add that item to the data store, i.e. our array list and return the inventory view.
Simple enough, we can go back to our store controller class.
And we need to create a handler method that can receive post requests.
So any post request that's made on the path submit item, we're going to map it to a handler method
called actually, I don't think it says what you need to call the handler method.
So we'll call it whatever we want.
I'm going to call it handle submit.
So handle submit.
Upon intercepting the post request will receive the item object.
Great.
And then I think it told us to create an array list and populate it.
So let's do just that.
I'll create a list of type item.
Uh.
What should I call it?
We'll call it.
Items is equal to a new array list that can store item objects.
All right.
And now here I can say items dot add and we're going to add the item, object to it and return.
Or actually what we're going to do is redirect them to make a request on slash inventory.
If you're not sure why we're redirecting them as opposed to just returning the inventory view, I highly
recommend you look back at the form submission lecture inside of the model view controller section.
Explaining it here again would be a bit tedious anyways.
Now we get to run our app.
Cool.
I'll go ahead and Maven Spring Boot clean.
Run it.
Or I should say Maven clean spring boots.
Run it because the clean happens first.
Okay.
No need for Google.
We'll just go here.
I'll try to submit a coach for 300 bucks.
We'll give them.
I'm feeling generous.
A 5099 discount order dates will say May 5th.
Submit the item and we get an error.
Now it's really important that whenever you get an error like this, try to ignore all of the noise
and look for the meaningful messages.
So the message here is that there was a problem with the date field.
The value was rejected.
Okay.
Interesting.
Fail to convert a value of type java string to java date for the property dates.
All right.
So upon receiving the post request, it received a string.
Our application received a string.
And it tried converting it to a date, but our spring boot application wasn't able to parse the following
string into a date, and that's why it threw an exception.
Now, where is this conversion happening and why is it failing?
Let's figure that out.
As always, if you want to debug something, I highly, highly recommend applying breakpoints.
So I will now need for inventory.
We can just add breakpoints here because it seems to be happening somewhere inside of handle submit.
So I'll stop the application.
I'm really bad at typing today it seems.
And then I will run the app and debug mode.
All right.
So we'll go to local host 8080.
I'll submit once again.
We'll use the same data couch.
300 bucks, 50, 99.
We'll say May 5th.
Interesting.
Nothing got called.
All right, well, ask yourself what happens before the logic inside of handles submit gets executed.
A new item object is created using your empty constructor.
And then Spring Boot is smart enough to update every single field in that object with payload from the
post request.
So what I'm going to do is set some new breakpoints.
Maybe there is no need to put one here.
We'll put one in said category one in set.
Name the one inside.
Set price.
Set discount and set date.
Okay.
I'll go ahead and go back to local host 8080.
We'll say furniture.
Couch.
300 bucks.
50, 99.
Submit the item.
All right, so something does run before the exception is thrown.
That's comforting.
So just as our handler method was about to run, Spring Boot creates a new item object using your empty
constructor.
And then it's smart enough to update every single field in that object with a value from the post request.
So here it updates the category with furniture.
Then it updates the discount.
Then it updates the name.
Then in updates the price.
So it seems everything was updated.
Will it update our date?
And that's where the exception is happening.
All right.
So now we know exactly where the exception is happening.
But why is it happening here?
The problem is that the form is sending back a string with the following data format.
Year, month, a day and spring boot as it's trying to update your date field.
It tries parsing the string that it receives into a date that matches the format of your data field.
But during this parsing process, it throws an exception because it cannot convert from type string
to a date for the following value.
We can actually confirm this by replacing this with a string.
Instead we'll say string str and for test for troubleshooting purposes I should say we'll just set this
equal to a new date for now and we'll.
Put only a breakpoint right here.
We run our app.
Okay.
We'll go to local.
Host 80.
80.
Furniture.
Couch.
300 5099 March 5th.
Okay.
And as you can see, it receives the string 2020 20505 So now I'm positive of what the crash is.
I will revert everything to what it was before.
What Spring Boot was trying to do is behind the scenes it was trying to parse this string into a date
that matches the format of your data field.
It was enabled to do that.
So through an exception where a data field probably has a different format than the one that's being
provided from the post request.
So what we need to do.
Is the fine a format for this field.
That matches the one provided from the post request.
So we'll say the pattern is equal to it seems.
Yea.
Month.
A day.
Day.
So.
Yea.
Month.
Day.
All right.
Now, I'm pretty positive this will work, so I will stop the runtime.
You run the app normally.
No more need for breakpoints.
Okay.
We'll say couch.
300 bucks.
59, 89.
A fifth.
Beautiful.
Upon receiving the post request, Spring Boot was able to successfully create a new item object, populate
it with payload from the post request, add that item to the items ArrayList.
Then it redirected the user to make a get request on slash inventory and then get inventory return the
inventory view.
So just before we wrap this up, I want to emphasize that it's really important when you get an exception
in spring boot, don't panic, look at the error message and then use a breakpoint to try to identify
exactly where the error is happening.
Only then will you have an idea of what's going on.
And then the most important step is to research.
Research for a solution.
Go on, StackOverflow.
Maybe this question has been asked before.
Maybe someone else has encountered this in the past and there's a whole thread about it.
Look up articles on how to correctly submit a date through a form with spring boot and only look at
the sample code.
Compare it with yours, see what's different, and then you'll realize, Oh, they have a date time
format pattern.
I don't.
Maybe that's where I'm going wrong.
And then that will give you an idea of how to solve your issue.
So it's really important that you get into the habit of applying these four steps every single time
you get an exception.
Just stay, come break, point your way to find where the issue is and then research a solution.
All right.
See you in the next challenge.